# Challenges and Lessons Learned

One of the major challenges that I faced was the relative lack of documentation online about how to make a cross-platform game using Cocos2dx.  There was lots of information about making them for Android or HTML5, but since I decided to build the application using JavaScript and build it for Android using the conversion tools, I faced some challenges getting everything to work correctly.

One of the biggest issues was that I had to covert the coordinates to the OpenGL format explicitly.  Left to the default coordinated, the HTML and Android versions of the game used inverse Y-axis from each other, meaning that touches were not correctly intercepted on one platform or the other.  However, once I found some information online about the differing coordinate systems and how to convert between the two, I was able to get both platforms to operate the same way.

One of the other major issues that I faced was that the Android build was more picky about certain settings than the HTML build.  For example, the touch event handlers could get away with not returning a value in the browser, but the Android build did not work unless they returned a Boolean value.  Similarly, certain methods required a parameter on Android that did not require a parameter in the Browser version.  I ran into these kinds of issues pretty frequently, due to the fact that I developed the game largely in the web browser, and only built for Android for debugging.

Despite the issues introduced by working in JavaScript and building for the Browser first, I'm really glad that I approached the game this way.  Being able to simply refresh the browser to test out changes, rather than needing to recompile the Android app all the time, made development much faster.  In addition, I found that the cross-platform compilation worked surprisingly well, once I worked out some of the kinks.  Overall, I think it was much easier to work with the Web languages that I'm familiar with instead of learning a new one to build this project.
